Welcome back.
All right.
Let's start setting up our smart brain projects so it works on our machines something that we're going
to use for the next couple of sections to actually add new features to it and do some really really
neat things with some modern tools that really improve our up.
The first thing I'm going to do I'm going to pretend this is my first day on the job.
I have the smart brain project and the smart brain API and Bruno and the team has just told us that
there is a client application a server which is this one and that we also need to set up the database
because this server needs to speak to the database where all the users are and where we store the hashed
passwords because users can log in and register to our up.
Let's get to it.
The very first thing I'm going to do is it's always good practice to instead of just cloning the original
repo to just forget.
Now in my case because this is on my repo I'm going to just corner for now.
But I do recommend that you fork your projects and you make your pull requests from those forked projects.
But for now I'm going to just clone the smart brain app to get us started.
So I'm going to open up my terminal and in here.
Let's make this a little bit bigger.
And here I'm just going to get cloned on your repo.
And while that's running.
Let's go to the API and do the same thing.
Just clone this Cerebro and get to clone.
All right.
You can minimize this window for now.
And just have our two folders up here.
So now let's make this even bigger.
Now we want to do actually because we have two things we might want to have two terminal windows here.
So I'm going to add a new window.
There you go again make it a little bit bigger so we can all see and I'm going to have one for my server
one for my client side up.
The very first thing I'm going to do let's clear this a bit and to clear this as well.
And I'm going to say that this is going to be the client side app the smart brain.
And this is going to be the server that the client side app uses.
So this is going to be C.D into smart brain API.
All right.
Now usually on get hub there's good documentation by the team of how to install and do everything to
set it up.
We can just start off with doing that and most likely we're going to have to do NPM install because
we have a package dodgiest on file usually with all our NPM packages.
But before we do that let me just open up subline
and I'm going to put these two windows together just to make my life easier.
Perfect.
So now I have my server that is right over here I can just pretend this is its own machine and then
do the same thing for my client side up again just putting these two together just to organize my screen
so I know that these two are completely separate and before I actually even run NPM and saw I like looking
at the package Jason phó that's usually going to tell you the commands that the project has what kind
of dependencies we use or what kind of depth dependencies we use and just by looking at this I can Google
perhaps NPM.
This is one gnomon does.
This is where PGE does PGE is postscripts so they must be using this database and express.
They're using the Express server probably they're using something called clarify on Wonder what that
is and then.
OK.
They're using the crypt to know J.S. to probably hashed her password so I already have an idea what
the app uses as tools.
Let's install those because for an app to work we obviously need to install these packages.
And you'll see that the node modules folder is going to appear and do the same thing for the client
side app going to NPM install.
And again going by going to package our Jason I see OIA this is a Briac project.
They're using Riak scripts so that's definitely a create re-act up.
That's great.
And these are all the commands that I can use it looks like NPM start is what I want to use for the
front end and then the back end I see that there's only one script which is NPM start.
So before I even do anything I can just run NPM start and see if all of this works which it does.
The app is running OK that's great.
And let's run NPM start here as well.
And because we already have the server running on port three thousand we just hit yes so we get a different
port.
And without looking at a single line of code.
All right.
I have everything set up and working or it seems like it.
So it looks like it's working right now.
Let's just try and create an account.
We'll say hey at.
Or the name is hey hey at gmail dot com and we'll say that the password is hey register I can register
if I open up the console.
All right I see that there's a 400 bad request at the register and point if I go back to my terminal.
All right I get an error on the server.
I get a K'NEX warning connection error.
Connect connection ended unexpectedly.
OK.
So it looks like there is some sort of a connection there without looking at any code and.
Well it looks like I can't really register and we know that in order to have any form of sign in or
users we need a database to remember things for us such as user names passwords profile information
all those things.
All right.
And we know this.
I mean Bruno told us that there is a client app a server and a database.
So looks like we need to set up our database now so that we have this connection and because I'm not
get any airing any errors on the front end and front end is usually very easy to set up.
I can go back and go through the dependencies and see what they're using and I see that they're using
PGE which is postscripts and most likely the database connection and set up happens at one of the main
files such as server that Jap's.
So I'd go here probably first and right away I see that.
All right.
It looks like D-B database is using this K'NEX package and K'NEX.
Let's say I don't know what it is I'll just go over here and say K'NEX and PM see what kind of results
I get.
All right batteries included multi dialect.
That's a query builder for no G-S and browser.
All right.
All right so it looks like we're using it for ask.
Well we go to get hub maybe they'll give us a better description.
Looks like they have a Web site so Lescaut check that out and.
Oh yeah.
K'NEX again batteries included.
Ask you all builder and it looks like we're able to create Eskew all statements really nice clean Eskew
all statements by using this.
If I go over here to let's say the query builder let's say that we want to do a select.
Method.
All right.
So looks like we're using K'NEX to select title author a year from the books database and the output
is select statement that gives us this.
All right.
Awesome.
So maybe you knew what K'NEX was.
Maybe you didn't but with any project I take a look at this and say OK so this is what they're using
it for.
That makes sense that we're creating a database and using K'NEX to connect to the port SCARUS database
and oh looks like there's a connection here and it looks like this is localhost by the way.
This want to 7.0 Dudd zero Darwan is the same thing as localhost.
If I change changes to localhost it's going to be the same thing saw Funny Cher once I think I've said
this before where it said there's no place like want 2 7 0 0 1 which means localhost.
So home there's no place like home.
I thought that was funny.
Anyway we also see that there is a smart brain database.
All right.
And the user is on Google which I created but we'll see if we even need that.
So looking at this we need to connect to a database and then divulge them because you're working on
your own computer.
You need to connect to a database that's on your computer or maybe they have a testing database that
we can connect to.
But Bruno didn't mention anything so it looks like we have to set up the database ourself.
And again if databases are new to you then I do recommend you check out my other course.
For now we can start off a postgresql database and create the smart brain app database inside of it.
On a Mac this is different for every machine you can use something called a gooey or graphical user
interface to actually create these tables for you just because it's a little bit easier than using the
terminal.
So I have something called Peace sequel are linked to sources that have Gucci's for Windows and Linux
and other sources.
But the sequel is free and really really nice for Mac lets me show you.
Again it's it allows us to use postscripts and have a nice graphical user interface.
So let's go back to our database and.
All right.
It looks like here we can just trying connect to localhost which is what we want.
And to the smart brain database.
So let's connect here.
All right says Eric cannot connect to server connection refuse.
Is the serving server running on host local host and this port number.
Well probably not.
I mean without you actually having to start a database server you're not going to have this running.
So the first thing you need to do is say hey run a postscripts server on my computer.
Again there's nothing that we've done to create a database have we.
All we need to do is open up the terminal and it's at a new one.
This may get a little bit bigger.
And we're going to say Drew and this is something that I can use Brue is homebrewed for Mac and by using
this command on a Mac I can start or stop postscripts ropes.
I can type
this is because I already have postscripts installed.
Again I'll leave resources for you to do the same.
If you haven't already done so from my previous course.
So Bruce services start postscripts All right.
Successfully started postscripts.
Now if we go back and we've started the server and I try and connect to the smart brain database which
I secretly already created.
All right.
Looks like I'm connected to the database.
There's two tables here.
There's a log table that has IDs the hash version or the password and the e-mails.
So we can use this to log in.
OK.
And then we have the users we have name email entries joint and just by looking at the database I kind
of have an idea of what information the smart brain app needs.
And it looks like it just has user information.
Now I have this already created.
But what if we didn't have this already what if we have a different database.
So let's close this actually and try again.
I don't want to open the sequel again and this time around let's connect to a database called smart
brain one if I connect database smart brain one does not exist.
So how do I create that smart brain database.
Again depending on the system that your postscripts is running in for Mac I can do the Create D-B and
just give it the name whatever name I want.
And again this comes with a brew installed version of postscripts.
Again I'll leave links to that.
So you can do it if you don't have postscripts already on your computer.
So I'm going to say create database smart brain one.
If I now go back and try to connect look that reaking connect and we have we're inside of the database
but you see that we have no tables.
We create tables by going into the query and in here I actually have a query history so I'm just going
to write it for you.
I can create the users table and this is just simple Eskew all commands and we'll go over this a little
bit more.
When we actually work with docker but we're creating an ID with a serial primary key that is it's going
to go in order one two three four five.
We have a name that limits to variable characters of 100 e-mail that needs to be unique and not all.
And it also needs to be in text type and entries that begin began with the default of 0 and joined which
is a time stamp that is a date.
And this may remind me remind you a little bit of typescript and ask you all in a way is typed right
before we can start assigning IDs and names and emails.
We have to tell at what type it accepts.
And this is how databases work to optimize their queries and just overall have the good performance
that databases have.
So let's run this query.
If I refresh now I have the user stable.
That's amazing.
And we can create the log and table as well.
Again same thing Id hash and email.
If I run this query and refresh.
All right I have the log in and user table awesome.
So there's my database running.
Theoretically our app should work.
Now let's go back to our connection over here and instead of data base and it looks like we don't need
a user because we haven't set a user and we're using again local host here.
I'm going to say smart brain one one to save.
We've restarted our server.
Let's try this again.
I'm going to go back to our app.
I want to register great.
We've just logged into our app.
If I go back to my database
and I refresh your
look of that I have.
Hey hey at gmail dot com zero entries.
A time stamp of when I joined and I even have a hashed password with the email that is very very cool.
So we should be able to now work with this app.
Right.
Let's close the console and looks like this magic brain will detect faces in the pick picture.
Give it a try.
We can enter a u r l here to detect faces.
So I have some face here that I can use I'm going to say copy image address which gives me the URL and
I'm going to pasted in here and click detect.
All right.
Look at our entries count went up by one and I can check this by going to the users and we see that
your entries is now once so database has been updated.
And if I go back to the server.
All right.
No errors.
And oh where is this face detection feature.
We don't really see it do we.
If I open up the console I see that oh.
Now we have another 400 at our air.
A bad request and I see that it's at the end point image you are real.
So something with the image you are l is working.
It just says cannot get image Jaro.
If I open up the network tab and try this again
we see that the image you Arel there's something wrong here.
We have a 400 square request and says unable to work with API.
All right sounds like we have one more piece of the puzzle that we need to fix and that is we're using
an API called clarify and clarify
is an API that allows us to send a URL of the picture and they return a response for us.
So if I go in into developers documentation and I go into let's see
predict we see that via your well we can predict things.
What can we do.
It looks like we need an API key and with any API you work with you need something called an API key
because this is how the API knows.
Oh yeah.
This is Andre.
He's already paid for our services or she has 1000 free images that he can send to us.
And by the way clarify is free for the entry level so don't worry.
This is something that you get out of the box for free.
So we need an API key.
The best thing I can do is go back to my API and perhaps search for API say API for now and the site
where we want to do we want to do a full on search let's say API.
And if I keep scrolling down keep scrolling down I see.
Oh yeah.
Here's my API key for clarify.
And yes I'm showing you might be Ickey.
And don't worry.
By the time you see this video I would have changed this so you don't have access to it.
This is one of those things that is a secret you shouldn't show to anybody.
You should never put it into production when you push this into get hub.
You need to do something like your API key here so that people don't see your API key because most of
the times API keys while they're valuable you either pay money for them or you have rate limits and
you can only use the service a thousand times and if I was a bad person I can just steal this and just
use up all your clarify data again.
Don't worry I'll change this by now.
By the time you see this so you can use it.
But I've entered my clarify key indie image.
Dodgy Yes which exists over here.
All right.
Again on most projects this is something that developers will already tell you are they're in the documentation
so you don't have to go find this out yourself.
But for those of you that again haven't been part of the my previous course and haven't worked with
clarify all you need to do is create an account and it's completely free.
And you can just say create new application click on your application and it has the API keys over here
and the API Keys are going to be generated for you and you can just copy this
or you can go to API keys over here and click on Create new API key and it looks like this is my API
key.
If I go back you can see that it's actually different than the older one which doesn't work anymore.
So I just copy and pasted this saved it.
And now let's go back to our up.
All right let's close this and try this again.
I'm going to click detect.
Hmm.
Let's go back here.
All right so that's not working.
I still getting the image you are all bad request.
And here's the thing.
As a developer there's always silly mistakes here and there that we think oh like there's something
definitely wrong with the setup.
What am I doing wrong.
And is just one of those things that you have to test all your assumptions and you'll realize that sometimes
you're just making a silly mistake and you think about it logically OK.
The code that I just received was working because other developers are working on it and we did a special
case where we modified the API key which most likely won't.
I just wanted to show you how to do that in case you need to set that up yourself.
But we wouldn't want to change too much of this code because this code is hypothetically already in
production.
So there's something that we're doing that we're doing wrong.
We've entered the API key.
Our connection to the database exist are.
And trees are being updated.
So the only thing that logically makes sense is something to do with this.
And if you actually take a look at this message oh it is not a you.
Well not at all.
If you go to the very beginning let's see
we see that it's a base 64 image which again is another way of getting images but it's not a you R-AL
which is what we expect to hear.
So you have to be careful with that because Google removed the view image tab from here.
So it's hard to get a you.
Well I've added it here because I have a chrome plug in that does it.
So let's pick a different image that actually has a well I'm going to copy this copy image address go
back to our app.
All right.
Now looks like a u r l with Dot jpeg.
I'm going to click detect
look that we have a face detection working for our app and there we have it.
We have our set up and everything is working.
If we go to the console Let's clear this and try again.
Let's try a different picture this time we'll try this one.
I'm going to say copy image address make sure it's a you Arel it's not it's base 64 Let's try a different
one.
Let's try this one copy image address.
It's a jpeg.
That's good.
I click.
All right.
No errors in the console are entry count has increased and it detects the faces.
All right very cool so we have everything set up.
If we go back to our server and then go to our app there's no errors.
Everything is working.
Everything is set up and that's when we start to actually look at the code and analyze things.
Once we set up everything so things are working we know that this is what we need.
We can start looking at the code now and figuring out what to do what we can't do.
By the way a quick side note for postscripts.
Another way you can access the database is again through the PSU all command.
Again this is something that might come with your Bruin's full of postscripts or you might have to do
something different depending on your machine.
But I do postscripts and you want the username and password the local hosts.
In our case the poor number that you remember we default created the postscripts askew all with and
then we have our smart brain app.
So if I do smart Brai one here and we don't have a user name and password so let's just leave it at
that.
We'll see if it works without a username and password.
Look at that I'm connected to the database and here I can use some common commands like Slash d backslash.
Which gives me all the tables that I have available and I can run SU all commands here like select star
from users and I see that a head G-mail dot com is also working.
Again something that we cover in my previous course but at least now you know that that's what we're
doing with our graphical user interface.
We're just connecting to this database and accessing it.
But in a more friendlier.
Easier to use fashion.
All right.
So this is working and the next video we're going to start looking at the code and seeing how we can
implement multiple face detection.
I'll see in the next one Buh-Bye.